Non-consensual sexual deepfakes have emerged as the new global wave of technological sexual exploitation, disproportionately affecting women and young girls. This harm is not something that is confined to the future; it is a present-day phenomenon that is only increasing at a rampant pace. The Georgetown Institute for Women, Peace and Security records that ¹95% of AI-generated deepfakes on the internet are obscene depictions of women, and that 96% of deepfakes are non-consensual sexual deepfakes, of which 99% depict women. The same report also showcases the wider ambit of the impact of image-based sexual abuse, stating that ¹57% of women globally report experiencing image-based sexual abuse, while 66% of sextortion victims are girls below the age of sixteen.

This paper aims to use ‘AI Nudifiers’ as a case study to exhibit the limitations of India's existing data-protection framework. AI nudifiers are tools that help convert images of clothed persons into a ‘synthetic’ nude or a sexually explicit image, often referring to the resulting images as synthetic non-consensual explicit AI-created imagery or SNEACI. ²Research on these ‘AI nudifiers’, shows that popular websites often target and commercialise nudification of women and advertise sexualised outputs of the same. They often operate behind a pay-wall and rely on credit card and cryptocurrency payments. This paper advocates that non-consensual sexual deepfakes be treated as a form of technology-facilitated sexual exploitation, and not as mere obscenity. ²This issue is not restricted to dubious ‘dark-web’ platforms, rather studies examined popular and easy-to-find ‘nudification’ websites, indicating that AI nudification has become a problem of the present. AI nudifiers also expose a serious child-protection gap because platforms do not have strict verifiable methods to ascertain the user’s age as well as the image subject’s age, to exacerbate things the law as of now has not imposed strict and verifiable consent and age-verification methods in scenarios where images of individuals are processed into sexualised content.

This paper therefore aims to analyse and structurally examine the Digital Personal Data Protection Act, 2023 (DPDP) as the primary statute for resolve. ³Section 3(c)(ii) of the DPDP 2023, exhibits the statutory gap in the Indian legal system. This section excludes personal data made available by the Data Principal from its ambit of protection, it specifically illustrates that where an individual makes their data available publicly on social media, the Act will not apply. This creates a serious and pressing remedial gap; a woman who makes her photo publicly available on social media cannot avail legal protection if the photo is sexually synthesised.

This paper advocates to amend certain provisions of the DPDP Act, 2023 to recognise SNEACI under its ambit. It also proposes that Section 3(c)(ii)’s public-data exception should not apply where publicly available data is utilised and processed to create, publish, monetise and commercialise sexualised deepfakes without consent, this paper also upholds stringent takedown mechanisms to bring down such non-consensual synthetic sexualised material from the internet, however upon taking into consideration judicial precedents like ⁴Shreya Singhal v. Union of India and ⁵Kunal Kamra v. Union of India it is imperative to ensure that takedown mechanisms are procedurally safeguarded, rather than becoming a broad state-controlled takedown power. A targeted amendment including non-consensual sexualised digital image processing from Section 3(c)(ii) would protect victims without creating an overbroad censorship regime. Such reform would recognise sexual deepfakes not merely as obscenity, but as unlawful, automated and commercialised processing of personal identity.
