Now, what one thinks might be a ‘fear’ might not be a ‘fear’ for someone else, while again, some fears are shared by most. My one such fear is ‘The fear of FAILING’, One would be surprised that this fear actually has a name too - Atychiphobia. One may assume this to be a fear suffered mainly by people who faced repeated failures in life, but what may be surprising is that it’s the more successful people of the society that seem to be the greater victims. The more successful, more to lose and greater the fall; hence greater the fear. But above that my biggest fear is knowing that one day I may find myself devoid of fears. Now just as stupid as that may sound, the feeling of not having something to fear about is a fear that keeps haunting me. In life it is the fear of something that keeps us going and keeps us in touch with reality.

Before I go into what I believe is true fear let me give the proper definition of it. “It is an unpleasant emotion caused by a threat of danger, harm or pain”. When we plan on doing something we know is detrimental for our being, our subconscious mind tends to stop us. This very thing that tells our subconscious self this, is what we call FEAR. When we lose this, we lose a complete side we call logic. It is like losing our sixth sense. A fear can be triggered by something of the past or something of the present. The thrill of living is knowing that slight fear at the back of your head telling yourself to keep alert but at the same time telling you “You have one life to live, live it to the fullest”.

My interest in psychology has helped me come across various instances that prove that fear is a powerful emotion and keeps the body in tune with nature. Fear has a magical way of conquering a mind and I mean that because there is even a phobia where people are scared to walk (Ambulophobia)!! Now one may ask, “if fear can cause such levels of madness, what sort of self-harming lunatic would want it”.  Well, that's the thing about fear – it’s been looked at all wrong, like it was all negative. As in the case of everything in life, there are always two ways of looking at things and fear is no exception to it.

If ever we can utilize fears to stop one from doing something impractical, that can change how one looks at life completely. It no longer remains a threat and instead it becomes your greatest strength. He, who masters the art of controlling it instead of being controlled by it, succeeds in channelizing it to be the best version of themselves.  Fear was always a part of us and must always be, to grow socially, spiritually, physically, and intellectually. The bravest man is not he who is not afraid, but he who is not afraid of fearing and especially learns to deal with it.
