Life…. It’s like an ice-cream; you have to lick every bit of it quickly or else it’s all just going to fall down. I wasn't really in the mood to write this article and didn’t feel like it, but my mom kept telling me to write and I just kept refusing and it really upset her. The very next day I get woken up by my dad only to be told that my mom was hit by a car while crossing the road. By the grace of God, she was okay finally, though severely injured. But the point is that it taught me a lesson in life. In my short life of 15 years I have learnt many lessons, but the ones that really impact our lives are the ones that set an example or change the course of life. Life is short and can be very unpredictable but what matters is to cherish every bit of it and to live life like there is no tomorrow, love the people who love you and be true to yourself. I was lucky enough to have my mother back with me and I hope it never happens to anyone but as I said before, life is unpredictable. We never know the value of something until it’s gone. In the hospital I was regretting everything I had ever said to my mom, every fight I had with her knowing everything she had done for me and expected of me. That feeling can kill a person on the inside, especially if it can’t be sorted. It eats the person bit by bit, creating a damage that is everlasting and is a feeling no one should experience. So I humbly urge every person reading this to live life like never before and enjoy every bit of it and enjoy even the smallest things in life as the smallest things can bring the biggest of results. My mother being safe was definitely a miracle for which one could give credit to luck or to some divine being out there but I’m THANKFUL and GRATEFUL. These two words are the key words of life which is something that can be practiced and transform one’s life. It might have been a second chance for our family and we must take full advantage of it as I know many others have not been so lucky. Which brings me back to the idea that everyone must do what they like as not everyone might be lucky enough to get a second chance. While dedicating some time to one’s self and love one’s self, set goals and targets to be achieved.  Time in life is the most important thing and once it is lost it can never again be retrieved. Wasting of time is the wasting of life. May I just add a short note here for all the people out there who believe that nothing can go right in their lives -  All it takes is a little belief in one's self for never is all hope lost. So believe in yourself and your journey of life. Live your best, act your best, think you’re the best and most importantly, be your best each day, for, there may be no tomorrow.
